We destroyed Iraq and we destroyed
Afghanistan and all the suffering, all
the killing, all the dying, all the
displacement, all of it. And that I'm
ashamed of. [music]
>> In Maine, there's a candidate for Senate
who's electrifying the Democratic base
and worrying the establishment.
>> I did four infantry tours in the Marine
Corps and the Army. I'm not afraid to
name an enemy. He's Graeme Platner, a
progressive [music] 41-year-old military
vet and oyster farmer. His pitch of
starting a workingclass revolution and a
savvy social media strategy has seen him
surge in popularity, [music]
but he's been dogged by controversy in
his short time in the national
spotlight.
>> Hey all, it's Graham here. As you've
probably seen, there's a story that's
broken [music] about comments I made on
Reddit in an earlier part of my life. I
am sorry, but it it does not in any way
reflect [music] who I am today or the
beliefs that I hold.
>> Now that his primary opponent, Governor
Janet Mills, is dropped out of the race,
Washington Democrats are pinning their
hopes on him [music] to help win back
the Senate in November.
>> Nothing brings people together like
wanting to beat Susan Collins. [music]
>> Is he ready? I sat down with him to find
out.
>> Not a bad interview setup.
>> Here's my conversation with Graham
Platner. [music]
Thank you so much for coming to New York
um on this great day. But um I'm really
I guess you're used to it. I mean
>> Yeah. Well, I mean a little bit. This is
nice though.
>> Yeah. And at least we're inside on
>> We're inside. Exactly. We're not We're
not out in the elements as you normally
are.
>> You are now the presumptive uh
Democratic nominee for Senate in Maine
after Janet Mills dropped out. Um, your
opponent, Susan Collins, is viewed as, I
think, one of the most vulnerable GOP
senators uh, up for reelection.
I'm sure you know this, a ton of cash is
about to drop
>> Oh, yeah.
>> into the race on both sides. Are you
ready for prime time?
>> Yeah. I mean, at the I'll be entirely
honest. Like, when we set this thing in
motion back in August,
the entire idea was we wanted to build a
different looking politics in the state
of Maine. Franklin was based around like
community organizing. I'm a firm
believer that organized people is the
only actual place of power to conflict
with organized money.
>> And in our society, money is very
organized. We set out on that. You know,
we were hopeful. We thought it was going
to work. It's of course worked in a
pretty spectacular fashion thus far.
We're just going to continue doing
exactly that. We're going to continue
doing the public events. We're going to
continue focusing on the field
organizing and we knew that all the
money was going to come. We knew that
like we were up against we're up against
the establishment of the American
political system. Um in many ways we
were up against the Democratic
establishment up until last week and
[gasps]
we figured at some point we were
probably going to win that and then we
were going to go up against the
Republican political establishment which
is where we find ourselves now. You
know, obviously the test right now is is
is if you can run in a general election.
And so, you know, I want to ask straight
up because there have already been quite
a few controversies and we're going to
talk about that um a little bit later,
but the GOP is going to dig up
everything um and more that they can.
>> Yeah. And probably lie at some point.
[laughter]
>> Is there something new you want to get
ahead of?
>> No. I mean, like we've I've been I've
lived my life. Uh I like I've been there
for the whole thing and it's and because
of that like I I I mean I know what I've
what I've been through. I know what I've
I know what my behavior has been. I know
all of it. And the I mean there's a
reason that even after however many
months that was October when they
dropped the opposition research stuff on
us and the whole time there was always
this like oh there's more coming. I'm
always like I don't know like what this
more is going to be. and
>> these are all your social media posts,
etc. Which again, we'll talk about in a
minute.
>> And and but there was always this like,
oh no, they're they're going to dig up
everything in your life and you know,
it's everything you've ever done. I'm
like, yeah, I mean, I get that, but like
I've I've been through my life and like
I'm certainly an imperfect person and I
certainly went through my struggles and
I mean, which I'm sure we'll talk about,
but I also know for a fact that like
I've never been close to money. I've
never been close to power. I've never
been able I've never like, you know, uh
I don't think anything I've ever done
has been outside of the realm of like
what people do when they struggle, when
they suffer, you know, that kind of
stuff. And I'm Yeah,
[snorts]
>> you know, I I think those controversies
and the fact that you're such an unknown
is part of the reason why the Democratic
establishment was worried. Um not the
whole reason, but certainly part of it.
uh Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer
um recruited obviously Janet Mills to
run against you um because she did have
that track record of running statewide
and she was viewed as more moderate in
his view. Uh there were no skeletons in
her closet, so to speak. And so I'm
wondering if you feel a lot of pressure
right now because yours is one of the
very few races that could really help to
flip the Senate into Democratic control.
As you know, uh, the Democrats are
extremely anxious about resting some
control back, uh, in their favor
>> for good reason.
>> Um, you know, I've had Democrats tell me
that the fate of the country is sort of
in the hands of you and a few other
people now. I mean, how do you feel
about that?
>> Yeah, I don't engage with it emotionally
because it's way too much. Like I
this whole experience has been just a
continual
one intensely surreal thing after
another. I mean it it's like I like last
summer when this all happened. I mean my
wife and I went from one day living a
very small simple life to I mean
literally within days having
[clears throat] this whole thing like
upend our entire existence. And so
there's a
>> because you were recruited, right?
Because they saw a video of you.
>> Somebody saw a video of me talking about
fighting a Norwegian salmon farm uh in
our area. And they were like, "That guy
seems well spoken. Maybe we should go
talk to him." And they came to my house
and they said that we should run for US
Senate. And my wife and I were like,
"That's the most insane thing we've ever
heard. Please get out of our house." Uh
and they came back a few days later with
more of like a fleshed out plan. And at
that point, we're like, "Oh my god." I
mean, it's still insane, [gasps]
but there's something to it. And for us,
we've we've spent a long time being very
engaged politically at the local level.
Uh, and I think both of us are are
deeply committed to building a
significantly better future. Um, and
this was an opportunity to do something
about it on a scale that, you know, is
just frankly hard to comprehend. Still
hard to comprehend
>> to be entirely honest. I mean, I'm I
still live in Sullivan, Maine. I still
live in my small house and across the
street from the boat launch. So, my
business partner is still like in the
yard this week getting the boats ready
and cuz it's this time of year we're
putting boats in the water and getting
the oysters up. So, like that's all
still happening while all this other
stuff is happening too. So, it's a
strange
disconnect I guess.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And and it brings me to this
like idea that you've been running as
this anti-establishment candidate, but
we've talked a little bit about the
Republican money that's going to be
dropping on you, but there's also the
Democratic party's money and their
organizing power to win this campaign.
Do you think that hurts your message of
being an outsider?
>> No, I think it's very clear to everyone
uh just how not the establishment
candidate I I am or have been. Um, you
know, the there's without question the
Democratic party wants to retake the
Senate. Uh, more than anything else, and
almost no map that has a Democratic
Senate, uh, it does not include flipping
the state of Maine. We have to flip the
state of Maine. We have to get rid of
Susan Collins for a whole myriad of
reasons, not just flipping the Senate.
So, they're going to come and help us
out. The thing that's important to know
is
we welcome their support in like the for
like with the money because we're going
to be up against I mean the NRSC's
already put aside almost $50 million.
>> That's the number I heard. Yeah.
>> For this race. That's insane. Also, by
the way, could you imagine investing $50
million in the state of Maine? Again,
anything be a different looking state.
The fact that they're just going to blow
it on like negative TV ads is just shows
how gross and
insanely uh flawed the system that we
have is around politics. But the we'll
take their help cuz we're going to need
it on that front. But what we're not
going to take is like frankly direction
or advice on what we're doing because we
just what we've built is ours and we
have we have 15,000 active volunteers in
the state of Maine and we have more
signing up every single day. Um, and a
lot of people who were supposed to be
really really good at politics, who were
the act the the experts, they all said
that all this was entirely impossible.
And we didn't just prove them wrong, but
we did so in rather spectacular fashion.
And we're just going to keep doing that.
I mean,
>> you know, you had said that um,
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer had
not really reached out to you until um,
Janet Mill sort of dropped out. and
you've had a conversation with him
recently. Did you tell him that? Did you
say, "Hey, bud, stay out of my
business."
>> No, I said, "Look, we we are happy to
work together uh to beat Susan Collins."
I mean, nothing brings people together
like wanting to beat Susan Collins.
That's it's a it's a very unifying
thing. Um the conversation was short. We
did not get into details. He said,
"Congratulations." I said, "Thank you
very much." He said, "The priority is to
beat Collins." I said, "That's my
priority, too. and however we can work
together to do it effectively is what
I'm willing I mean that's what I want.
>> Yeah. I mean I've I've watched you on
the campaign trail
>> and one of the main messages that you
have though is not to put too fine a
point on it but you know f the
establishment.
>> Yeah.
>> And and I guess do you think Schumer
should be replaced as leader then? I
mean are you
>> Yeah. I I don't I I I I my criticisms
remain exactly the same as they were
last Wednesday. Uh I do think that the
that leadership in the Democratic party
has been has really failed the moment. I
don't think I mean for a bunch of
different reasons. I do think that
[gasps]
uh I do think that Senator Schumer has
has not really risen to the occasion and
I think we do need new leadership uh in
the party without question. La last
question on this um and it is about
Susan Collins. As you know, she has been
there since the 90s. She has been a very
deaf um sort of fundraiser and
campaigner in the state of Maine. I
mean, what do you give your chances
really?
>> Very high. Extremely high actually. I
one polling bears that out. Now, I am a
Democrat in Maine, so I'm wary of
polling. There's no question about it.
But there is a consistency to it, which
is nice. um
>> because I think there was another
candidate um that was trying to run
against her. She was up in the polling
and
>> I think a couple
>> I think a couple things have changed.
One, I think polling methodology has
changed significantly since 2020. Um
there and and Maine has always been
notoriously a hard state to poll uh
because we have an aging population.
There are a lot of people that still use
landlines. There are a lot of people
that still like do mail. So there are
but a lot of the a lot of the more
recent polling takes all that into into
account, which it didn't used to. But
there's a deeper change and I think it's
it's a couple things. First and
foremost, and people often forget this,
2020,
Collins had already voted for Brett
Kavanaaugh, but Row had not been
overturned. And Collins's real pitch for
a long time was like Olympia Snow. She
tried to make herself look like Olympia
Snow actually was this, by the way, but
Collins has tried to make herself look
like this moderate Republican who will
buck her party. a a woman senator from
Maine who is pro-choice, who is who who
who supports reproductive rights.
[snorts]
That fiction could still exist in 2020
cuz row was still in place. Row was no
longer in place. I mean, she said it was
settled law. She [clears throat] said it
was never going to change, which is why
she voted for Brett Kavanaaugh. Well, at
this point, it has changed because of
her vote for Brett Kavanaaugh. So either
she was lying or she completely
misunderstood what was happening. Either
way, that doesn't show like a really
solid uh I don't know political acumen.
Uh and and I think in many ways that I
mean that alone is relatively
disqualifying not just because of the
implications but because of the frankly
just incompetence of it. Then there's
the element where at this point I don't
think you could come up with a better
avatar for the longerving self-enriching
establishment politician than Susan
Collins who raises an immense amount of
money outside of the state of Maine who
takes an immense amount of money from
Apac. She takes an immense amount of
money from special interest groups and
fossil fuel companies and she has a very
high performing stock portfolio. uh you
know I mean these I think a lot of
people in Maine look at that and are
like yeah I don't think that that is
actually the politics I want
representing me.
>> I want to um take a bit of a step back
uh and talk a little bit about you um
because I think for many people across
the country you're an unknown quantity.
Um you're I don't know
>> I'm a random guy. I'm a random oyster
farmer from Sullivan Maine. So yeah. So,
you're pitching yourself as a
workingclass man. You're a firearm
instructor, a gun owner.
>> Yep.
>> Um, in your campaign launch video,
you're wearing a dirty hoodie. You're
shucking oysters. You're swinging a
kettle bell. You're chopping wood.
>> What kind of masculinity are you trying
to evoke with that?
>> A healthy one. uh one in which like it's
it is entirely fine to be a
weightlifting, kettle bell swinging,
gun-owning kind of like rugged guy. You
can do all of that and see see your
strengths or see your privilege as
things that are be to be used
specifically to like uplift and help
other people, not to like impose on
them. I think right now especially there
are a lot of young men in our society
who are being dragged into this kind of
like really dangerous misogynistic like
manosphere. I I just watched Louis the
Rose documentary the other night. Uh
it's horrifying sadly for me having
spent like having spent my life as an
angsty [clears throat] young man and
then being in in the in the service in
the Marine Corps in the army in the
infantry in both very very masculine
spaces. Um, like I have seen that kind
of toxic masculinity really attract a
lot of a lot of young men and
a lot of it comes from the fact that I
think that there are a lot of men who
are deeply deeply insecure
who whether it's because of trauma,
whether it's because society has told
them they're supposed to be a certain
level of successful and they aren't
that. And so then they feel like they've
failed or that society has somehow
failed them. And then they're given this
story that the only way to make that up
is to like impose on other people. To
uplift yourself, you have to put others
down,
which I think is nonsense. I think that
just results in you being alone.
>> Why have Democrats struggled so much
with with men lately?
Uh, honestly, I think it's because
they've left behind working the like the
working class. And and hear me out here.
There was a time where like
people who like worked for a living, use
their hands, were very very close to the
Democratic party uh through the labor
movement, through just kind of general
policies. The Democratic Party was was
once the policy that really represented
working folks. And there is this vision
of masculinity in America which has a
lot to do with that exact thing, right?
Like kind of working, building,
creating. Um, there are elements of that
that I think are very positive. I do not
believe in this whole like white working
class that like to that the working
class is just a bunch of rugged dudes
and hard hats. That's not the working.
Working class is significantly bigger
than that. And it's very multicultural,
multi-gendered, multi-racial, the whole
90 yards. But there is an element in our
society that we view, you know, we view
like kind of working-class people like
that. And I think as a Democratic party
has for a while now kind of
begun to look like the party of like
liberal elites. There's just an element.
>> You don't have to whisper it. [laughter]
>> Sorry, I'm in New York. Um, but it it
looks like this party and sounds like
and and in some ways kind of did become
this party of sort of like Ivy League
schools and elite that like when you
when that was left behind.
>> I mean the data shows it. Um yeah.
>> Yeah. I mean the strength of the
Democratic party is in cities. It's
among the educated. Um it's among women
actually.
>> Um and I think a lot of that came
because uh the Democratic Party uh
abandoned organized labor.
Quite frankly,
>> is that what you were tapping into when
you did your thing?
>> Yeah. I mean, like, it wasn't Yes. I
mean, but but I'll be hon Not not
performatively. This is just my life. I
mean, I do swing kettle bells. I lift
weights. I work on the ocean with my
hands. I shoot guns. Like, it's by Yeah.
Like, that's a it's all there's nothing
performative about it. It's it's just
kind of my existence. So yeah, I think
there's a [snorts] I want us to be able
to reconnect with a healthier version of
masculinity.
One that is rooted in hard work and
building things.
>> You're not a looks maxer.
>> Uh definitely not a looks maxer. I'm not
going to smack myself in the face with
hammers cuz that seems to be like
possibly the dumbest thing a human being
could ever do. But you know that's just
me. One of the things that I have heard
debated about you quite a bit is your
working class roots because
>> you know you grew up in a small town.
>> Yep.
>> Didn't graduate college, became a
bartender.
>> Y
>> but also your father was an attorney. Y
>> your grandfather was a Cornell educated
architect. Quite quite well known. You
went to private schools. So
>> kind of well the private school thing I
would just like to so I
okay uh so in eighth so I grew up in
Sullivan mine went to Mountain View uh
elementary school which is very small I
think my graduating I think we had like
12 kids or something 12 to 14 it was
tiny and my mom really really wanted my
brother and I to get like a high quality
education and this place in Connecticut
Hodgekus gave us a really good financial
aid package So my mom was like, "All
right, that's where you're going." I and
I did not want to go at all cuz I didn't
want to leave Maine. Um so I got sent
down there and there was a moment which
I will never forget and it was the
moment I knew that I had to leave this
place. I went down to Hodkus and they
had like you know monthly or weekly uh I
think called a chapel or something like
that and people you know graduates or
you know people would always come and
give speech motivational speeches and
whatnot. The first one I went to, some
guy came, some business magnate type,
uh, and was trying to kind of inculcate
in everyone like the concept of work
ethic. And at some point, he was just
like, "Who in here's had a job?" And I
put my hand up and I was the only kid in
the room that put his hand up. And I
realized that it wasn't a real question.
It was a rhetorical question because of
course none of these kids had held jobs.
And I then felt really embarrassed cuz
I'm like 13. And like I realized, oh my
god, like I'm like there are a lot of
people here who are like super wealthy
and like I'm [clears throat] not and my
family's not and like it's and like we
were fine for the record. I grew up
solidly middle class without question.
Um but like worked
for I mean all the way I worked through
high school. I buy bag groceries. I did
landscaping. Worked for the Appalachian
Mountain Club on the professional trail
crew for two years before I joined the
Marine Corps. And so like there was just
this I don't know this this real sense
of
>> like I was very out of place. So I uh I
got myself kicked out by Christmas. I
lasted I was at Hodkas for like 3 months
and then I went back to Maine and I went
to John Baps which is up in Bangor which
was far more my speed. Lots of lots of
just normal Maine kids who were more of
my kind of world.
>> I mean how do you think about class? Um,
is working class how you grew up or how
you live now? Like how do you because
you grew up, you're you're describing it
as solidly middle class.
>> Um,
>> I think the difference today
>> and you make your, you know, your pitch
is I'm of the working class now. I work
with my hands.
>> Yeah. And I am I mean I work with my
hands. I don't make a lot of money. Uh,
my wife and I work incredibly hard. Uh,
and we probably make like $60,000 a year
combined. We don't have money left over.
We're not saving for retirement, I'll
tell you that. Um, I was lucky. I got to
buy my house in 2017 and I could not
afford my house today. My my house has
gone up almost three times in value. But
my
>> family money
>> the was that
>> do you have family money?
>> My my father gave me the uh the mortgage
except of course because he's my dad and
he's an attorney. He gave me a
significantly higher interest rate than
the bank would have cuz
>> he's a lawyer. Uh but um but it was but
I als I had I could have used a VA home
loan if I had wanted to, but at that
point it was just easier to do it that
way. Um and and I mean I like I just but
to be fair like I could never get that
today. Uh cuz I can't afford the monthly
I can't afford the mortgage if it was
three times what it is. My my income
hasn't gone up three times.
[sighs and gasps]
>> And my uh so I was lucky to get it then.
And so we're like we my wife and I very
much recognize the life we've been able
to to build has come from a lot of like
luck and but on top of that is also my
VA healthcare and my VA pension which
that really is kind of like the that's
the baseline that really allows all this
to happen. Um, if it wasn't for the VA
healthcare thing, I wouldn't have had
the freedom to start a business to move
back to my hometown, figure out I mean,
I was flat. I moved back to Maine in
2016 from DC, and I had I was broke
broke. I was living at my mom's house.
Uh, cuz I had spent a number of years
very depressed, which we can get to
about after my combat service. But, um,
you know, I when it comes to like middle
class, working class, I will be very
upfront. I think this to this day and
age [sighs]
you are working class if you work and
you make your money from work and wages.
Uh like the the world of wealth
disparity has become so intense that
there are just so many people now who
are sitting on so much money who do not
work. They make money off their
investments. They make money off of
their wealth. And and I know it's an
expansive definition of working class,
but I think you need to have an
expansive definition of working class
when we have the most expansive margin
of wealth inequality in the history of
the country. In in the state of Maine,
almost everybody's working class.
Everybody works.
>> Everybody works. Everybody struggles.
Everybody has like if the hospital
closes and that really impacts you,
you're probably a working-class person.
If you're really rich, you don't. It
doesn't matter where the hospital is.
You probably can go wherever you want
for healthcare. You know, it's
interesting. I'm listening to you and
I'm and on the one hand, it makes
political sense to say the working class
is this very expansive group that anyone
who gets a W2 and has to pay taxes off a
salary.
>> Uh which is different than if you're
making it off your investments is
working class, right? Um and that's it's
you get a different kind of hit as we
all know just having been in tax season.
>> Um by the same token, it's it's a it's a
strange kind of idea of what working
class is. I know people who really
consider themselves working class, who
grew up, you know, with a lot of
struggle.
>> Yeah.
>> And that feels probably to them like
that's too expansive um a definition.
>> I I mean I I spend a lot of time around
labor unions. I spend a lot of time
around community groups that focus on I
mean I everybody seems these days
everybody seems to subscribe to the same
definition because it is so substantial.
And to me, that's it is expansive, but I
think it's also pretty I think it's the
most accurate definition of what we're
seeing right now. And and I look, I'll
be very upfront. I get a chuckle out of
the fact that like a lot of folks in
this political system who come from
incredible amounts of privilege and
wealth, they're the first ones to be
like, "Are you really working class? Are
are you are you are you really like, oh,
I don't know. You're just out there not
making a lot of money and working on the
ocean." But uh your dad was a small town
attorney. Does that mean that like you
can't actually represent working people?
I honestly think it's a tool. It's a
political weapon that throughout history
has been deployed against people whose
primary political goal is to improve the
lives of working folks around them. It's
always to call into question like their
their bonafites. [clears throat]
>> Well, to be clear, I'm asking you
because I'm interested in hearing how
you describe yourself. Well, I just
Yeah. to be clear just to understand how
you
>> you know tell your own story and also
how you view what your coalition is. Um
because obviously you're pitching
yourself to the working class and
>> yeah I mean which is also I think we're
winning by spectacular margins cuz in a
state like Maine everybody's like yeah
that makes perfect sense to me and we we
all do we all do feel very much that us
and our neighbors in our communities
we're all kind of suffering the same
way.
>> So after high school
>> Yep. You joined the Marines at 19.
>> Yep.
>> 19. Yeah. 19.
>> And I want to ask you about your tours
in the Middle East. Um, you went to Iraq
in 2005. Is that right? Yeah. I mean, we
were there at the same time. I covered
Iraq from 2002, uh, before the invasion
to 2010.
>> Why did you want to serve? Because you
were anti-war. Um, you were out
protesting the conflict. I just saw this
post about you actually in Maine kind of
protesting George W. Bush. I dragged out
of a Bush rally in I think November,
December of O2.
>> I want to thank the people who take time
who work hard to make sure that the
democracy is strong.
>> Yeah. So, it's a strange thing to sign
up.
>> I see I everybody says that, but like it
never was for me. I mean like one I
wanted to be a soldier since I was about
two. I mean, I was singing the Marines
hymn [clears throat] as like I think I
was like four or five when I first
memorized it. Uh, and I don't know why
that is. Like I was my I don't come from
like I mean I we have a long lineage of
military service in my family, but like
my dad wasn't in the service. My parents
were not enthused about my joining of
the of the of the Marine Corps.
>> Um
I but I always had an attraction to I
think service, but I also had an
attraction to adventure. And you know in
our society
we do very much sell militarism and war
in this very romantic fashion about like
about adventure and excitement. And then
there's also and I think you can
probably understand this too. There is
this weird attraction when everyone
tells you that everyone tells you that
the only way you could ever experience
it is to be there. M
>> that it's a thing that is so unique and
so its own thing that no one could ever
get it unless you had seen it. And I
think for me there was an element of
curiosity to that where it's like well I
mean like what am I what is it then? And
and and you know I grew up reading
military history books and I was into
Civil War reenacting and I was like very
it's like a little military nerd. Um,
and but I also in high school became
pretty critical of certain elements of I
think American foreign policy. Certainly
when the war in Iraq was kicking off, I
was like, "This seems like a deeply
stupid idea."
>> Yeah. I mean, you had an image of you in
high school holding up a sign saying
free Kosovo, Cheschna, Kashmir,
Palestine, Kurdistan, and Tibet. That's
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I got I got really into Irish
politics when I was in high school. Uh,
which introduced me to, I think, some
sort of uh like a Yeah. connection to
like national liberation struggles and
seeing people is like seeing the world
through that lens. Um, at the exact same
time though, I was still like a young
man of the United States and I still
I was very patriotic.
And so there was a to me the two things
never and you know I'll be I met a lot
of guys in the Marine Corps that thought
that the war was dumb and were there
>> you know but they were there cuz the
it's a like the attraction is more to
like the camaraderie and the kind of
whole like I don't know the whole like
the infantry combat unit thing. It's
it's it's less about like why you're
doing it. Uh, in my experience, I I
don't I I I never met anybody I don't
have many friends in the Marine Corps
who when we were serving, they're like,
"Yeah, I'm definitely here to like fight
for George Bush and like and do
whatever." No, no. I mean, they're there
for like cuz you joined the infantry.
You're there cuz you were a young angsty
man and you like joined up and you
wanted to go have an adventure and you
wanted to fight. I mean, that's why
that's what the infantry primarily is.
Can you tell me um [snorts] with that in
mind in your head, that sort of romantic
vision of what it was, what you felt
when you first arrived in Iraq, because
you were based in what was called um
then the Sunni Triangle.
>> Yeah.
>> Very high conflict area. Um
>> yeah, when we first got there, it wasn't
so bad. So we January, February, March
were pretty mellow. Uh we did the
election late January first that first
Iraqi election January of05. Somebody
shot an RPG at us, but like it didn't go
off.
And then on April 2nd, 2005, there was a
large uh combined assault, multiple
suicide car bombs, an immense amount of
indirect fire, rockets, mortars, the
whole nine yards. And that was like my
first actual interaction with like
combat combat. Um the rest of that
deployment was fairly mellow. Summer
came, a lot of IEDs, we got blown up a
bunch. um couple serious incidents with
my with my my my platoon and took some
casualties, but for the most part it
wasn't like uh it wasn't like
continuous.
>> Um and yeah, and then that deployment
ended Janu or August of of '05. We came
home for like four and a half five
months. Someone went to machine gun
leadership course
and then we promptly went to Rammani for
'06 and that was like a totally
different
>> the middle of the civil war.
>> Yeah. And that was Romani in ' 06 was a
>> the worst of the worst
>> and we were at the government center
>> uh in downtown Romani and we just lived
there. Uh you know everybody else came
and rotated through and you know
journalists would come and the brass
would come and they'd all come down
because they all wanted to see the
government center cuz that's like where
all the fighting was and like we were
like we just we lived there like just
where eight months no days off. Didn't
have a single day off for eight months.
It was exhausting. Uh and it was and it
was very very violent. I mean, you know,
we just like regular contact almost
every day. So,
>> what do you remember about how you felt
being part of that war? Because
it's just interesting to me considering
where you came from to suddenly find
yourself as part of an occupying army in
the Middle East, no less.
I'm just wondering how you sort of made
sense of the mission because you wrote
to your mom at the time the United
States is doing an amazing thing here.
It took me coming here to realize that
don't think we are somewhere we
shouldn't be.
>> Yeah. I mean I remember in 05
we were actually engaging in like some
building projects.
>> We were like we're helping turn the
water back on. We were like there it
felt I I actually I mean I was also 20.
I was still a kid so I get and you need
to make all this stuff mean something,
right? like you you want to be part of
something good. And so as I saw like
what seemed like doing good things
>> for a little bit for a little bit in
2005 I I did I did believe that we were
doing something good. Um towards the end
of deployment I started to kind of
return to my more cynical kind of state
on the whole thing. Mostly just cuz I
saw like all the contractors and all the
like we spending so much money like
somebody was clearly getting very rich
but it wasn't us. But then yeah, 2006
comes in Ramani and I mean at that point
I would I became very
um
well I don't even know if I was you know
let me rephrase at the time I did I
didn't really think about it much. I
mean when you're in it and you're just
doing the work and every day is a slog
and your friends
>> you're not reflecting.
>> No. No. I mean you might spend a lot of
time being bitter [laughter] because you
haven't slept in 3 days and some colonel
just came down and told you that like
your boots were dirty. Like there's a
lot of being angry at everything, but uh
but there is a but like but you're still
you're part of your unit. You're around
the guys that you you love and that you
care about and you're all kind of in it
together.
>> Uh and there is a deep sense I would say
of like camaraderie and and community
that you get [clears throat] from that.
Um that I mean I certainly got from it.
>> That period I imagine was really hard.
Um just
>> looking back on it.
>> Yeah. [gasps] and you, you know, have
been diagnosed with PTSD. You've talked
about that. When you look back now,
when do you think you started to suffer
from that? Because I was also diagnosed
from PTS uh with PTSD. And for me, you
know, I can remember exactly what
happened and
that caused the sort of cascade.
What was it for you? [snorts]
It was It was 2006 and it wasn't a
specific moment. I'll just be I I I I
think
[sighs]
that's not actually true. [gasps]
Oh, man.
>> I'm sorry.
>> No, it's okay.
Um,
in 2005, my vehicle got hit by an IED
outside of place called Karma, north uh
north of Fallujah. And uh
we uh it was myself and my best friend
was in the back of the truck. Uh
[clears throat] another Marine, another
Marine was driving and yeah, we drove
over an IED, blew the truck up. I got
knocked unconscious.
Um, I come to whole front of the truck
is ripped off. Um, I like I thought we
had engine trouble. I was all like
discombobulated. [snorts]
I ran around to the back of the truck
and there's my friend. Uh, you know, um,
he's alive, but a piece of shrapnel has
like come up under his helmet and ripped
a lot of his uh his head off. [gasps]
And uh, you know, I'm 20 and this guy's
my best friend. We went to infantry
school together. We came to the fleet
together. We were like, we were thick as
thieves, real close. And I I just
remember and I was Yeah, I was a combat
lifesaver. So, like I got this training
on like how to But they never told me
what to do when you're like looking at
brains.
>> And I remember standing there being like
I don't know what the to do. Uh
like and this is my best friend. And I'm
like and I I'm supposed to save him, but
I like I don't I have no idea how to
even do that. Um and then luckily this
guy uh Doc Huey um spectacular
spectacular Navy corman comes running up
and starts immediately going to work and
and saves saves his life. Um and he
survives uh but but has some pretty
significant it was a significant head
wound [gasps]
and you know it like
it happened. I was of course distraught
because he was my best friend and I'm a
kid and you know like you're and
>> it's scary.
>> It's very scary. And then we also like
came under fire. So like all this is
happening and we're there's also a
gunfight going on. So then I got to go
like get in the gunfight for a while and
we we get the vehicle back. We drop him
off at the medical station and and and
then like I'm in the back of the truck
just like cleaning the blood out uh and
like mopping it up and I just remember
there was a moment and they were like,
"Well, we got to go back on patrol in
like 3 hours." And you're just like,
"Yep." So there was a there was like a
hardening at that point for me where I
was like, you don't actually get to do
this. You you don't get to engage with
it because if you do, you're going to be
worthless and you can't be worthless out
here. The whole point of this is like to
be effective at your job. You're not
going to let down your fellow Marines.
[gasps]
And I realize looking back on it now,
like that was cuz I saw frankly worse
things after that. There was much more
horrific violence. I saw people in in
far worse physical I mean far more death
awful stuff.
But like that was that was like the
first time it happened to me. And I
think you know we got back from that
deployment and you know young Marines we
all drink a lot. We all party a lot. You
know high-risisk behavior is pretty
standard for young Marines. Um, but when
I got back from my Romani deployment in
'06,
in between my second and third
deployments, that was when I know that I
was absolutely self-medicating and
drinking heavily, really not wanting to
engage with like feelings and emotions,
becoming very emotionally distant. Um, I
had like a girlfriend, relationship
totally fell apart cuz I was just a
wreck of a human being. Sadly, that kind
of remained sort of the case for a while
after that, not being a very uh
emotionally connected human being. And
uh but I think it all it all starts back
then.
>> You end up serving quite a few more
tours. You go to Afghanistan and then in
2018, you go as a military contractor.
Yeah.
>> To Afghanistan.
>> Yeah. For 6 [laughter] months. Didn't
last very long. I mean, how had your
views at that point evolved from that
from that first letter that you wrote
home to your mom to then?
>> I mean, I it it is in entirely they
invol they they had changed into
something else entirely different. When
I went back in 2018,
I didn't believe in any of it. I went
back in 2018 because I was broke and
lost and I had no idea what to do with
myself and my skills. Um because all I
all I'd ever really done was carry guns
for a living. And and my friend of mine
was just like, "Hey man, uh I'm on a
contract to Cobble. We don't do
anything. All we do is lift weights. The
ambassador doesn't really go anywhere,
so we don't really have to do much
driving around." Uh he's like, "The
pay's pretty good. It's not bad." M
>> so I went over for 6 months and at that
point whatever whatever disillusionment
was became something much deeper because
I'm in Kbble and I'm like seeing it from
the I'm like at the embassy and seeing
it from the high side and I was like oh
my god 7 years 7 years I haven't been in
this country and no new ideas
and we're out there dropping bombs on
people's houses. There are special
operations units kicking in people's
doors in the middle of the night. It's
all the violence is still happening and
nobody down here has an inkling of what
to do or what we're even attempting to
do. And so I uh quit,
moved back to Sullivan, bought a 19T
seaway skiff, started farming oysters,
and decided I never wanted to look back
and I wanted to get as far away from all
of it as humanly possible.
>> When you look back at that, do you feel
angry that you were part of that
violence? Do you feel do you regret that
you were part of that violence?
>> I Yeah, I have a complicated
relationship with it because I I I am
still proud of being a Marine. I'm still
I and look and I am very proud of like
my service and the service of the guys
that fought next to me. I mean, we we we
tried our best. We truly did. Uh and
but it doesn't matter if you try your
best inside of a flawed policy and a
flawed system. It's flawed from the top
down. It's bound to fail. It's bound to
bring an immense amount of violence upon
people who in no way, shape or form are
deserving it of it because I mean we
destroyed Iraq and we destroyed
Afghanistan and all the suffering, all
the killing, all the dying, all the
displacement, all of it was was we we
brought that we the United States did
that and it is a
and that I'm ashamed of. Um,
the anger that I feel is for the people
that sent me
who are frankly still the same people
who are sending people off right now to
go but be in harm's way so we can start
and have the stupid war with Iran. I
mean, Susan Collins voted to send me to
Iraq and she's also there to help Donald
Trump continue this absolutely insane
conflict in the Straits of Hormuz. So
it's a it's the same people and I and
that is like if I have any anger, it is
reserved for like the political system
itself and and the people in it who view
war not as like a thing that has a human
toll, but they view war as like a
political game, something that they can
use.
>> Do you see yourself as anti-war now? Not
the war with Iran, but just
>> Yes, in general. Absolutely.
>> In general.
>> Yeah, I do. Um, I'm not a pacifist, but
I I am
but I I am essentially anti-war. And I
think the way that we, the United
States, wages war, I mean, really going
it's I I'm I'm pretty critical of most
of our military engagements. I I fail to
see [snorts] many that made lives better
here for Americans. There are a lot of
examples of it being good for
multinational business interests. There
are a lot of examples of it being good
for people in places of political power.
Um, rarely good for the people who have
to go fight and die. and
rarely good for like the American people
who have to pay for this nonsense and
deal with the repercussions of it.
Meanwhile, you know, Rathon executives
got a get a yacht. People make a lot of
money off of this thing.
>> You know, it's interesting um
hearing you talk like that. I mean,
there are some on the right who have
very similar views.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, how do you think about that? Do
you think that there's like a natural
alliance there perhaps or is there
>> I don't know if there's an alliance. I
but I like I I think it's just a
reflection of the fact that it's hard
not to come to that conclusion these
days. I mean the the forever wars that
we have been in now really since 2001. I
mean what good has it done us? Your
politics do not have to remotely align
with mine to still like see that very
clear reality which is I think what
we're seeing. I want to come back to
something um that we mentioned at the
top which is um something else that
happened during your time in the Middle
East and that is of course that you got
a tattoo. Um
>> well that wasn't that was in Croatia.
>> That was in Croatia but it was during
this period then when you were
>> in 2007 right and it resembles Nazi
insignia.
>> Yeah it's a skull and crossbones. I like
for the I just want to I got a skull and
crossbones with a bunch of other Marines
in a tattoo parlor in Croatia because
skull and crossbones are things that
Marines get. Uh and then I had it for 17
years and I took my shirt off. I was out
in public. I took pictures with it. I
went through two security clearances
where I got screened for gang and hate
tattoos and it never once came up on a
screening. Um, yeah. So that was that's
what I I had a skull and crossbones on
my chest for 17 years until after the
campaign started and then the uh the you
know the establishment candidate got in
the race and suddenly they drop all this
opposition research and part of it is
that Graham Platner has like this this
like tattoo with white supremacist ties
or Nazi ties and at that point I took a
look at the things I'm like well I don't
want something that has that kind of
connotation on my body and so I promptly
got They cover it up.
>> Did other people get the same tattoo?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Other guys in my unit. Yeah.
>> You know, I I mean, you say it's
opposition research. That may well be
true, but ultimately it is hard for
voters to know what the reality of why
you got that is.
>> It doesn't seem to be the case for
people in Maine. I mean, I've I've
talked about this ad nauseium and uh
>> I mean, have you made outreach to Jewish
voters?
And
>> I mean, how have they responded?
>> Half of my family is Jewish. I I in
fact, the video in which the tattoo was
displayed, which was the video that was
shared around, was at my brother's
wedding to my Jewish sister-in-law with
her whole extended Jewish family where I
was taking my shirt off and dancing. If
I thought I had something that was this
obvious like anti-semitic thing, I would
not have done that cuz that would be
utterly insane. Yeah. Yeah. No, I we do
a lot of I mean to be honest like we we
have we have I have a lot of close
supporters who are in the Jewish
community in Maine. Um primarily because
I've I've been close with people in the
Jewish community in Maine my entire
life.
>> Does it make you concerned about who you
engage with? Because you know obviously
this issue is very sensitive for many
voters as you know. I recently
interviewed Tucker Carlson. He told me
he was interested in meeting you.
>> I saw that. I've been hearing about it
ever since. Um, I mean, you told
independent journalist David Sarata that
you're weighing talking to him.
>> Yep.
>> I mean, do you what are you weighing? Do
you think Tucker Carlson's an
anti-semite? Are you worried that by
going on to his show because this is
>> this is still part of the conversation
that this could lend itself to
>> Oh, I'm not worried about that part. I
mean,
>> you know, people tagging you with with
the way that they might
>> Look, I'm Look, I'm not an anti-semite.
I never have been. I've been very
dedicated actually.
>> Do you think Carlson's an anti-semite?
>> Uh I do not know enough about the band
to know and I but I will say I am not a
fan of his form of like right-wing kind
of uh uh there's a lot of like I think
unhealthy nationalism and xenophobia in
there and that's I don't think a helpful
thing. What I'm weighing is the fact
that I and I often talk about on the
campaign trail. I do think it's
necessary to have conversations with
people we disagree with, especially
these days. I think if we always just
stay in these kind of ideologically pure
spaces, we're just never going to talk
to anybody. And I firmly believe in the
need to find common ground and to and to
rebuild like communities and
relationships in which the average
person actually has like almost
everything in common when it comes to
material needs. But I at the exact same
time I say that I also don't want to
elevate
hateful or or I mean frankly any kind of
thing that I that I personally view as
being dangerous and and that's a that is
a that's a tough needle to thread is
because in order especially with
somebody like Carlson who has such a
huge reach. I mean I'll [snorts] be very
honest a lot of the guys I served with
big Tucker Carlson fans. M
>> um and I want to be able to engage those
kind of people with my kind of politics
and and my my answer on these things
that it isn't it isn't immigrants who
you need to be afraid of. It's [snorts]
it's and that's not why your life is
hard.
>> So that's a yes, you would go. I guess
>> it's Oh, no. I I we we I I still do not
know. I'll be honest. I have not uh I
bounce back and forth on this one all
the time.
I also want to bring up something else.
There are controversial statements also
on social media. You posted over 1,800
comments under the username P Hustle
from 2009 to November 2021
and some of them are objectively
concerning. Um, you said Royal Mayors
are racist and stupid. You said that
sexual assault victims should take
responsibility for themselves.
>> This all came out in the national press.
>> Yeah. Why didn't you disclose this stuff
first?
>> I mean, we did. We We released all of
the comments. I mean, when when people
came to us, they were like, "Oh, we've
got these very we've got a couple little
ones." Uh, and we were like, I mean,
there's a lot more than a couple, so we
just put everything out there. So,
>> you did delete them though before the
campaign launched.
>> I deleted them a while ago. Like, I
haven't used Reddit in I think since
2021. Um, and I don't I'll be honest. I
don't actually know when I when I did
delete everything. I uh
>> So, it wasn't because you were going to
run?
>> No, no, no, no. I got like I just I I
stopped using the internet. I mean,
which is I stopped using the internet
because I got happy. I mean I I I sat on
the internet for for a number of years
getting in fights trying I mean quite
frankly uh in the parliament
[clears throat] of the times
posting um trying to trying to get a
rise out of people trying to get in
arguments because it you know brought me
some form of I don't know like serotonin
boost or something because truthfully I
was really really isolated and alone and
very angry and a lot of the worst
comments definitely come from the years
where I was in I like at my absolute
worst, which really is between like 2012
and 2017.
>> Um, 2018 is when I was actually like in
in a pretty dark place all in all. I
>> I just want to clarify something about
the Reddit comments. Can you walk me
through the timeline again?
>> Yeah.
>> So, you decided you were going to run.
Did you worry about those old comments
immediately? I mean, when exactly did
you delete them? When did you decide to
release the others? Well, we we released
we we like just put everything out
because it was what is it the Wayback
Machine I think is what what got used um
right after we got contacted by I think
it was CNN who was the first the first
outlet that reached out to us cuz they'd
found some and we were like there are
more um I mean because they're out I
mean it's I'm an elder millennial. I
grew up on the internet. I am well aware
that everything you post on the internet
is there forever. It's not like a
[laughter] It's not a It's not a thing.
I don't know. Um,
>> so you deleted them like in 2021, 2022.
Is that
>> I actually I'll be honest. I don't know.
Uh I don't
>> But well before you were considering
running for office.
>> Yeah. I mean I I didn't uh Yeah, I'm
trying to think of cuz [snorts] I
deleted my Reddit profile cuz I just
stopped using Reddit. So I But I I don't
know actually when I did that because it
I just I I hadn't used Reddit since I
think 21. So somewhere in those 5 years
between 21 and 2026,
>> did the people who recruited you, did
you disclose it to them that this that
this was there?
>> Oh, yeah. I was like, look, I mean, cuz
I mean I mean we talked about everything
that I could have ever cuz you know this
we that's this is how politics is now.
Even though I I'll be honest, I think
it's a pretty ridiculous way of
conducting politics, but this is how
politics is. So you have to go through
like everything you've ever done that
could be like portrayed as a bad thing.
And uh and you know, one of the first
questions was, "Do you have social media
posts?" I'm like, "Oh, yeah, man." Like
I spent spent 18 years on or whatever 12
years on Reddit um and made a whole
bunch of comments. Uh cuz I did.
>> Can I ask you about something else? You
wrote in 2018 about armed resistance to
fascism. You said, quote, "An armed
working class is a requirement for
economic justice."
How do you think about that now? As a
student of history, uh it is difficult
for me to not see elements of that as
being like a reality, especially in
resistance to fascism. But we didn't
beat the Nazis with smiles. We we did we
did beat them with a war. Um it's I I
don't think it's a very controversial
statement to tell you the truth. Hm. I
mean, I guess in the context of
political violence, some might see it as
um worrying.
>> Well, to be fair, I was talking about it
as a private citizen with no visibility
and mostly just talking about what I
thought was a very clear historical uh
like reality.
>> Um which I would, you know, I would say
it's still true. I mean again I mean
historically fascism has been beaten uh
with with armed like resistance and
conflict. I mean World War II was mostly
us and the Russians and [laughter] using
you know
>> do you think there needs to be armed
resistance in this country?
>> No. Good lord no. The way that we use
the term political violence right now in
our in our kind of current discourse
violence has absolutely no place. And I
don't think it moves us any closer to a
better or freer society. That's what I
think the organizing is for if I'm going
to be upfront. I mean, I think one of
the reasons we actually see an explosion
of political violence today is because
we do not have more effective outlets.
Like there are people who want to see
change. they want to see. And you know,
for especially for folks who are kind of
um either ideologically more uh or just
mentally more uh attracted to using
violence that when there is no other
outlet, when there is no healthy place
to put that energy, I do think you see
an explosion of violence, which is kind
of what we're seeing right now. A lot of
people are angry about the system.
People are angry about the state of
things, but there isn't like a very
clear and healthy way to use it. And I
think that's one of the reasons why
building
organizing at the community level is
paramount for the future of our
political system.
>> Um 2017, my mom and I went down to the
women's march in DC. So, and I remember
going there and being like, "Oh my god,
look at all these people." like we're
clearly going to we're going to resist.
We're going to fight back.
>> The hats.
>> Nothing happened
>> because it was just mobilization.
Mobilization is a tactic. Turning people
out into the streets, protests. That's
part of it. But there it needs to be
deeper. And I think one of the problems
is that we haven't had that in quite
some time outside the labor movement and
certain organizations and the civil
rights groups. I mean, they've kept the
flame alive, but [snorts] I think right
now that's the work we need to be doing
is tying into those skills and those
legacies of organizing and expanding
them to everybody else to give a lot of
people who are feeling hopeless and
angry a place to come in and a place to
like put that frustration, that anger to
positive use, working with their
neighbors, building trust, building
relationships at the community level. I
I think that's without question that is
the only way we're going to effectively
resist the Trump administration, but
also the only way we're going to
effectively build power to I think
rebuild the American political system to
be more representative of the average
American.
>> And the way you've discussed this is
revolutionary. You you have talked about
wanting to completely break the system
as
>> now. We need a political revolution in
this country. I mean Bernie said it in
2016. It was right then. he remains
right today. I mean, I think
structurally our political system at
this point, whether it's money, whether
it's the the way that we've the way that
our democratic systems have been kind of
subsumed by corporate power,
we need to change the structures of how
this thing works. We're going to talk
again and I'm interested in [music]
how you think about wielding power
because you've talked a lot about your
theory of power and you know what should
happen once you have it. Uh [music] but
that shall be for another time.
>> Okay.
>> Graham Platner, thank you very much. I
really appreciate your time today.
>> Of course. Thank you. I appreciate
[music] it. It's great being here.
>> On the interview, we speak to our guest
twice. So, a few days later, I [music]
spoke to Graham again about his vision
for American politics.
>> Hey,
>> how are you?
>> Good. I went and it's Today's the first
day of early voting.
>> Oh, exciting.
>> So, I went and voted at the town office.
So,
>> what was it like to vote for yourself?
>> Very weird. [laughter] Very weird.
Deeply surreal. Not a not a not not a
thing that I ever Yeah. ever pictured
would happen. So, it's very strange
seeing your name on an actual ballot.
>> So, I want to talk to you about your
plans for the Senate um if you are
elected because it is, as you well know,
very hard to get things done in the
Senate. Um and you've talked about
Bernie Sanders a lot and I think he's
someone who has moved the party on
ideology but not necessarily on
legislation.
And you've exhorted voters in the past
to elect people who want to wield power.
And I just wondered what you think that
means. What what is the sort of
philosophy of Graham Platner?
>> The philosophy is is that we don't have
things that most of the American people
want like universal health care, like a
foreign policy that isn't just based
around militarism.
We don't have them. Not because we don't
know what they are or not because we
haven't been able to define them or even
write policy around them. We have them
because there hasn't been the political
will to make it reality in the Senate.
What we need is more numbers. We need
more people who are willing to vote for
things like universal healthcare. And
like there I' I've actually had a bit of
a there's always been like a frustrating
relationship with a lot of kind of the
pundit class over the course of this
campaign which is always this like well
we've never got it hasn't we haven't
been able to get say Medicare for all
and maybe that's be and so why do you
think we can get it now? It's like well
we're definitely never going to get it
if we elect people who don't want to get
it. I mean, that's a that's kind of like
where we I I that seems fairly obvious
to me. And so, I think we need to very
much look at the United States Senate as
a place where we have to engage in a
power building process, which is going
to be electing more people who want to
advocate, vote for, but in many ways
also elevate the conversation around
these things. You know, I I kind of
agree with you on Bernie. Bernie has
been able to change the narrative and
change ideology, but hasn't been able to
move votes. That's because he's one
vote.
At this point, we need to add to that.
We need more.
>> I'm interested in this because I think
one of the critiques of Democrats has
always been um you know that they're
weak. Uh and that's from Democrats,
right? Other Democrats are always
complaining that Democrats lose their
way, that they you know, they get power,
they don't exercise it in the way that
they should, etc., etc. I I saw that you
want to impeach members of the Supreme
Court. Is that what you mean by wielding
power, taking action that's concrete,
that is aggressive?
>> Yes, absolutely. I mean, that is a and
and by the way, I I didn't this is not
just like my opinion. I mean,
a an accurate reading of American
history shows that this is the case. I'm
going to use the example of of FDR New
Deal programs in the Supreme Court. You
know, FDR implements a bunch of New Deal
programs. Supreme Court says a lot of
these might be unconstitutional. We're
going to rule that they're
unconstitutional and we're going to shut
down the New Deal programs and progress.
Then FDR, much to the chagrin of his own
party, I may add, threatens to pack the
court. Suddenly, overnight, no change to
the words and the policies. Everything
became constitutional. No longer came up
for a vote in front of the court. Power
is more than just the words on the page.
Power is something that needs to be
wielded, used when you have it. It's
just rooted in historical reality that
when you look at American history, when
you look at moments in which the nation
was in crisis and when large programs
were necessary, when things needed to be
protected or when new things needed to
be built, it wasn't enough to simply
stay within the norms of the of the of
of the institutions as they had been
built recently. you had to create new
forms of power. You had to use them. And
it's amazing to me that that very clear
history has existed the whole time. But
I would say for the past well for the
recent few the recent past anyways. Um
the Democratic party has not had a
theory of power. The
>> I mean the Republicans have certainly
had a theory of power.
>> Absolutely. Which is why we have lost. I
mean, [laughter] and like this is when
you when you when you run up against a
theory of power and you don't have one
of your own, you're going to lose every
single time. I think while Republicans
and I would say corporate conservatism
has very much developed a theory of
power over the past 40 odd years, the
Democratic party developed a theory of
management and that is not sufficient.
>> [snorts]
>> But isn't your theory of power simply
like the Republicans's theory of power,
which is we will do the things that we
want to do um and that we need to do
regardless of whether the institutions
or the um sort of history and nicities
allow us to do it or not.
>> No, there's there there's one major
difference. Like right now, the Trump
administration breaks the law every
single day. The Trump administration
does not use funds. They've been
appropriated by Congress by law. The
Trump administration has started what I
would call an unconstitutional war uh
overseas in Iran. You know, there are
the Trump administration has been
sending ICE out to terrorize American
communities and murder American citizens
with at this point no accountability.
What I want to see is a creative use of
constitutional power. When I talk about
impeaching justices on the court, what
I'm saying is we merely need to hold the
court to the same ethics standards we
hold all other federal judges. I'm not
saying we should break the law. What I'm
actually saying is we should follow the
better law. The Senate could do this.
The Senate has the power, the Congress
has the power to hold the court to
ethics standards if it so chose to. I'm
curious as someone who wants to be part
of the Senate, how you view executive
power because one of the things that
we've seen obviously during this Trump
administration is a real coalesing
around executive power and in many ways
that has allowed uh the Trump
administration to really push the
boundaries of what it can do and
Republicans might say do exactly what
you're saying, remake the country um in
the way that they want to see it remade.
How do you see that relationship between
executive power and the power of the
Senate and Congress at large?
>> I firmly believe that certainly over the
past 40 years, we have seen a
uh a
coalescing of power in the executive
branch that far outweighs what it was
supposed to be in the constitution. You
know, George I mean George W. Bush era
unitary executive theory much of of
course which all comes out of the same
people who were in the Reagan White
House who were all actually the same
people who were in the Nixon White
House. Uh this is a pretty pretty clear
throughine through all of that.
And and to be honest though, we have to
be clear that it wasn't merely
Republican presidencies. Executive power
was sometimes created among within an
executive pres or a Republican
presidency, but then it certainly wasn't
diminished or given up when a follow-on
Democratic president was in place.
>> I mean, Republicans would say President
Obama was the prime example of that.
>> And I think that that's a that's an
accurate critique or it's a fair
critique. [snorts and gasps]
This nation was not set up to have a
king. That wasn't the point. This nation
was supposed to be a representative
democracy, a republic in which the House
and the Senate are supposed to be actual
actors in the governing of the nation.
We have seen that disappear for decades
now. And what I very much want to see
and one of the reasons I want to go to
the United States Senate is a Senate and
a House that reassert their power. uh
because what we have now I I mean I
don't think this is remotely in line
with how the nation was supposed to be
functioning which is one of the reasons
why it's not functioning but over time
we have just given power up to the
executive and we've given power up to
the judicial
in a completely unelected body uh which
in many ways is not even open to any
input from the American people because
we have lifetime appointments to it and
I very much believe that structurally
these things need to
Yeah, you want term limits.
>> Term limits in the Supreme Court.
Absolutely. And and and and term limits
in the House and the Senate as well. But
we need to see structural shifts so we
can reassert. I mean, a big one, too, is
we need to have a new war powers act
that really pulls war powers back from
the executive um and does not allow for
what we currently have, which is the
ability of the executive branch to begin
wars, claim that they aren't wars, and
then sometimes have them go on for years
and years without a declaration of war.
By the way, I I had to suffer because of
that because I had to go fight in two of
those versions. Well, let me ask you
this because you've you brought up the
War Powers Act and and and conflict and
we obviously talked about that uh a lot
in our first uh conversation.
How should we deal with a hostile power
with nuclear ambitions?
>> I think on foreign policy, we have to
redefine what it is we want. I mean, not
even just recently, but really since the
end of the Second World War, a lot of
American foreign policy has not been
around the elevation of the American
population, the average American, right?
I mean, the war in Vietnam, I'm not
really sure what good that did uh for
the average person in this country. Um,
many of America's interventions in Latin
America, uh, they weren't really good
for the average American in this
country. They weren't good for workers.
They weren't good for American families.
They often are very good for corporate
interests, defense contractors, and
people in places of political power who
want to use war as a mechanism of
protecting their political power.
>> So, let me though ask you again though,
what do you do with a hostile power with
nuclear ambitions? Like, how do you
curtail an Iran? How do you curtail for
example Korea?
>> You engage in diplomacy like the JCPOA,
which we had in place until the Trump
administration ripped it apart. I very
much think the Biden administration
should have brought it back. But that's
what you do. You engage in robust
diplomatic
activity. That's how you do it. You do
it as a mature nation that acts like
that acts like a country that is trying
to engage in a long-term project that is
going to to protect Americans, keep the
world safe, and also keep us out of
military conflicts. The Trump
administration got rid of the JCPOA,
which which then reset the stage. And
then now us and the Israelis seemingly
every couple years have this idea that
like we have to keep Iran from having a
nuclear weapon. So we go and bomb things
that we claimed just a year ago or less
than a year ago. We bombed to destroy
their nuclear weapons capability. You
can't just keep doing that and then
expect to be taken seriously. Um, I I
want to pivot and um talk a little bit
about the race itself. Since we spoke,
you dropped your first attack ad against
uh Susan Collins and in it you say she
is selling Maine out to the Epstein
class. I mean, it's an angry ad.
>> We don't care that you are concerned
while we go broke as you sell us out to
the president and to the Epstein class.
>> What are you channeling there?
>> The anger of the average manor. People
are angry. People are angry because they
are looking at a system that does not
represent their needs, their value or
their will at all. They are seeing this
country continue. I mean, the war in
Iran is a perfect example of this. We
have now spent $50 billion
$50 billion
in the war in Iran. A war that is
uniquely unpopular with the American
people. We're angry at a political
system that doesn't reflect that in any
way, shape, or form and also seems to
have not one ounce of power to slow it
down. Look, things have gotten worse for
working people in the state of Maine in
the last 30 years.
Things got harder. So, you know, one of
the things that you've said again about
being a New Deal Democrat, and the thing
that I understand about that period, it
is that it was about creating programs
and spending money. [sighs and gasps]
And I'm I'm just wondering, especially
in the moment that we find ourselves
spending money from where? Um,
>> well, where did the money for where the
where did the $50 billion these these
ide
[laughter]
are at a moment where
you know our debt is has ballooned. um
spending is government spending is you
know many view it as out of control and
unsustainable.
How are you going to find the money to
do these very ambitious things like
Medicare for all? These are all very
expensive things.
>> So we just spent $50 billion in two
months in the war in Iran and I haven't
heard a single question of where it came
from.
I am always amazed that this nation can
just expend billions, trillions of
dollars on wars that enrich the
military-industrial complex,
protect people in power, and we never
have to have a conversation about where
the money came from. But the moment you
say that Americans deserve to see
housing costs come down or energy costs
come down, the moment we have to talk
about health care, suddenly we have to
pull our pockets out and pretend like
we're poppers. I just take issue with
the framing. Uh primarily because we
have taken on an immense amount of debt
specifically over the past 30 years.
>> I guess I'm asking are people's taxes
going to have to go up? The answer is no
because we're going to go after the
money where it went. I mean, the reason
this nation isn't immense amount of
debt, and this is important to
understand, is because we created lots
of new public money, put it out into the
world where it went into a a speculative
financial system where it has now been
hoarded and invested in truly ridiculous
things for a long time. The debt that
this nation holds, it holds it because
we made public funds. And we put them
out not into the real world, not into
programs that are going to uplift the
average American, not into small
businesses, not into small farms. No, we
put this money out in the form of fossil
fuel subsidies. We put it out in the
form of tax cuts for billionaires and
for corporations. We put it out into
massive amount of funding for the
American military-industrial complex.
That's where the money has gone. The
reason we have such debt, but we also
have essentially a crumbling society, is
because we have taken on that debt
merely to enrich the already wealthy. We
didn't take on that debt to create new
programs to elevate all of us as a
nation. I think this is really important
to understand. One of the reasons we're
going to we will never be able to pay
off our debt if we don't invest in
making America more productive.
And the way that we make America more
productive is by uplifting everybody in
it to give them the opportunity to
create and to produce and to consume. I
mean what's funny I people often talk
about this like it's some sort of
left-wing fantasy. What I'm talking
about is an actual functional market.
What we have right now is a
non-functioning market because
essentially all the money every single
day, wealth and labor gets extracted out
of working people and hoarded more and
more and more in a part of the economy
that doesn't do anything. And we need to
use the tax code to pull that money
back. Few a few last questions. Um, you
know, I was thinking about your
PTSD, uh, and our discussion around that
and I was thinking about your time in DC
before that and how you discussed it
being difficult and you being unhappy.
[gasps] I've thought also a lot about
John Federman. When I interviewed him,
he talked about his mental health
struggles that were brought on by the
stroke. He talked about how lonely he
was in DC.
And you know, you are an oyster farmer.
You partly healed from your PTSD by
being out on the sea in Maine.
Um, do you think this time will be
different?
>> Oh, of course. Well, because I'd done no
healing back then.
>> I hadn't gone through any of the
process. I mean, I came back and went
straight to college in Washington and
had done no therapy. Had I mean, really
had was was on my own in many ways and
isolated. Hence why I was deeply unhappy
then. You know, now I'm going back down
there with not just an array of tools
because of years of therapy and years of
kind of dealing with stuff, but also a
community of people who who love me
deeply and who I love deeply. I've also
spent a lot of time recently developing
relationships with sitting senators,
relationships that I hope will go far
beyond just the professional. Um because
I think it's important to go to a place
and and to I want to be a functioning
part of it. I don't I'm not trying to go
to just be a pain in everyone's ass,
which no offense to the senator from
Pennsylvania, but that does seem to be
his primary goal these days. Like I want
to go and create relationships and and
create a better future for Americans and
for the people of Maine. And yeah, I
mean, I feel just like a I'm a different
person now because of the time that I've
spent, the work that I've done, the
tools that I have now. Um, yeah, I think
it's going to be incredibly different.
>> I saw this thing in the bull work that
argued you have a chance at being the
Democratic nominee for president in
2028.
And I think it's indicative of people
looking for a savior um and radical
change.
>> Yeah, I'm definitely not a savior.
yourself.
>> Um, I mean, who do you want to actually
lead the party?
>> To lead,
>> who don't you want to lead the party?
>> I mean, I'll be who I don't want are
many of the people that have been doing
it for years. I'll I'll be upfront.
People close with corporate power,
people who often waffle on on uh on
positions often. I I I think people are
sick and tired of that. I think people
are happy to disagree with you as long
as they know that you're
>> So, is that who is that? Governor Gavin
News. Like I I'm just trying to
understand from the people that we know
that are out there who you like and who
you don't like.
>> Uh I will be up I I am I very much like
Ro Kana. I think he's done an excellent
job and I've heard his name banning
around a bunch on on this on this topic.
I think he has a much like myself a
connection to the past in understanding
that New Deal era programs are going to
be necessary to meet the challenges of
the moment and of the future. Um, and I
think that he uh he also is interested
in long-term industrial policy, which I
am as well. It's something this nation
really needs to get back to doing. Um,
and
but I also think that I wouldn't be
surprised if the person we see in 2028
we haven't even started talking about
yet. I'll be upfront. I think that that
people are looking for radical change
and I don't know where exactly that's
going to come from, but I'm relatively
convinced that we're going to be talking
about names next year and the year after
in relation to the 2028 presidential
race that right now just aren't even on
the radar. I think we're in for a a
generational shift in American politics.
[music]
Um, and it's coming quickly.
>> Graham Platner, thank you so much for
your time. I've really enjoyed this.
>> No, thank you, Lulu. I really appreciate
it.
I'm Lulu Garcia Navaro.
>> And I'm David Marquesy.
>> And we're the hosts of the Interview, an
audio and video podcast from the New
York Times.
>> Every week we interview fascinating and
influential people from all walks of
life.
>> Subscribe to our YouTube channel so
you'll never miss an episode.